{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020b06040202020202}Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Courier;}{\f121\froman\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times New Roman Fet{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020b06040202020202}Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Courier;}{\f121\froman\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times New Roman Fet{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\qj\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb120\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f121\lang2057\kerning28\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\qj\sb60\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\qj\sb60\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\qj\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\qj\sb240\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs22\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\qj\sb240\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs22\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\qj\sb240\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 7;}{\s8\qj\sb240\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\qj\sb240\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs18\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj\sa60\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 footer;}{\*\cs16 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s17\fi-794\li794\sb60\sa120\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin794\itap0 \i\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\s18\qc\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Author;}{\s19\qc\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 Affilitation;}{\s20\qc\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f121\fs28\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 Titel;}{\s21\qj\fi-284\li284\sa60\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl10\ls2047\pnrnot0\pnf6\pnstart1\pnindent284\pnhang{\pntxtb _}}\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls2047\ilvl10\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 List;}{\s22\qj\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl10\ls2047\pnrnot0\pnf6\pnstart1\pnindent284\pnhang{\pntxtb _}}\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls2047\ilvl10\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon21 \snext22 List-last;}{\s23\qj\fi-454\li454\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin454\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext23 Reference;}{\s24\qj\sa480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext24 Abstract-text;}{\s25\qj\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext25 endnote text;}{\*\cs26 \additive \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s27\qc\sa60\keepn\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2047\pnrnot0\pndec\pnf4 }\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls2047\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f121\lang2057\kerning28\cgrid \sbasedon1 \snext27 Abstract heading;}{\s28\qj\sa60\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext28 header;}{\*\cs29 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\s30\qj\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext30 footnote text;}{\*\cs31 \additive \nosupersub \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s32\qc\sb120\sa60\keepn\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2047\pnrnot0\pndec\pnf4 }\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls2047\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f121\lang2057\kerning28\cgrid \sbasedon1 \snext32 Acknowledgement;}{\s33\qc\sb120\sa60\keepn\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2047\pnrnot0\pndec\pnf4 }\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls2047\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f121\lang2057\kerning28\cgrid \sbasedon1 \snext33 Ref title;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid984073\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat6\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1}{\list\listtemplateid984073\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat6\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1957563614}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid1957563614\listoverridecount0\ls2}}{\info{\title An intelligent tutor for the acquisition of French pronunciation within the communicative approach to language learning.  The secondary and tertiary solutions.}{\author Dr P. Le Cosquer}{\operator Philippe Delcloque}{\creatim\yr2004\mo3\dy29\hr16\min27}{\revtim\yr2004\mo3\dy29\hr16\min27}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords2793}{\nofchars15925}{\*\company University of Abertay Dundee}{\nofcharsws19557}{\vern16411}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl1134\margr1134\margt1418\margb1418 \widowctrl\ftntj\aenddoc\hyphhotz357\aftnnar\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale184\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \s15\qj\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\fs2 \par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \s15\qj\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\fs2 \par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \s15\qj\sa60\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\par }}\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \qj\sa60\widctlpar\pvpara\phmrg\posxc\posy0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs16 \par }\pard \qj\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s20\qc\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f121\fs28\lang2057\cgrid {\line Speech Technology in Language Learning - 24-27 May 1998\line Maholmen, Sweden, An ESCA workshop\par }\pard\plain \s18\qc\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\lang2057\cgrid {Review of the event by Philippe Delcloque\par }\pard\plain \s19\qc\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {University of Abertay Dundee, Dundee, UK\par }\pard \s19\qc\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\field{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK mailto:p.delcloque@tay.ac.uk }{{\*\datafield 00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000001600000070002e00640065006c0063006c006f0071007500650040007400610079002e00610063002e0075006b000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b3a0000006d00610069006c0074006f003a0070002e00640065006c0063006c006f0071007500650040007400610079002e00610063002e0075006b000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs29\ul\cf2 p.delcloque@tay.ac.uk}}}{\par }\pard \s19\qc\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\par }\pard \s19\qc\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\par }\pard\plain \qc\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\b\fs22 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\cols2\colsx567\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \qj\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\par }}\pard\plain \s27\sa240\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f121\lang2057\kerning28\cgrid {\f4\fs20 Preamble\par }\pard\plain \s24\qj\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {The European Speech Communication Association, the world's most respected learned society in Speech Science and Engineering organised a workshop devoted to Speech Technology (subsequently ST) in Language Learning (subsequently LL) in late May 98.  This brought together most of the leading figures in research and practice in the field for a programme of consecutive presentations lasting 3 days, papers, posters and keynotes.  The event took place in a very relaxed and pleasant, secluded atmosphere in a Conference Centre whose main function is to provide Holiday Chalet accommodation for Swedish Labour Unions.  The rural setting ensured that delegates were fully focused on the topic at hand throughout the duration of the workshop.  The formula is certainly very good, and might be usefully considered by CALL organisations such as CALICO and EUROCALL.\par }\pard \s24\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 {\line }{\b 1. Background\line \par }\pard \s24\qj\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 {These workshops are organised by ESCA when it is felt that a special reflection needs to be paid in a smaller, more focused, setting than the Eurospeech annual conference.  Thus, they suit Special Interest Group events (and indeed share some similarities on a larger scale with the NLP conference organised at UMIST by Hamel and Schulze) and emerging "minority" fields of interest.  They also serve the crucial purpose of bringing together researchers and practitioners from diverse disciplinary horizons who might otherwise never meet because of working along parallel paths.  ESCA ensured participation from members outside the speech community and indeed the specially created Scientific Committee included a number of CALL}{\b  }{and language specialists active in the field.\par }\pard \s24\qj\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 {\b 2.  The Keynotes\par }\pard \s24\qj\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 {The selection of keynotes was very judicious and showed just the correct blend of diversity.  The event started with Jim Flege's (from the University of Alabama at Birmingham) excellent paper on "Second LL:  The role of subject and phonetic variables".  In it, Flege, explained that "chronological age is typically confounded with other factors such as how much the native language (L1) is used and how long the L2 has been spoken".  He demonstrated that "both language use patterns and age influence performance in an L2" acquisition or learning setting.  According to him, "the interaction appears to occur at the level of position-sensitive allophones".  Readers will be familiar with the parsimonious account which Flege has kept of issues related to the refinement of the so-called "Critical Period Hypothesis".  It was therefore not surprising to find Flege as the most quoted scholar in individual paper and poster references.  Interestingly, Jim concluded that "One's success in learning to produce and perceive an L2 is clearly not an all-or-nothing consequence of age".  He also stated that "Phonetic variables are \u8230\'c9 important" and that learning takes place in the context of a "common phonological space" or interlingua.  It is easy to see the relevance of this to the notion that more intelligent machines capable of visual displays, etc\u8230\'c9 might assist the learner in mastering FL phonological systems.\par }\pard\plain \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {The second keynote was delivered by Patti Price from SRI International, who, despite her status in the field, modestly explained that she would ask more questions than provide answers.  Yet, her statement was an authoritative review of the state of the art and its pedagogic implications which would have served to inform the largely technical audience and constitutes a must as a read for any pedagogue actively involved in integrating ST in LL.  Patti's paper is entitled:  "How can ST replicate and complement good language teachers to help people learn language".  Price addressed successively issues of usability, HCI, types of technology, scientific validation of the uses of technology through experimentation, and, crucially, what the future might bring.  Like Egan, who preceded her in the workshop with a paper, she brought up usefully the importance of relating any technological approach to the key principles of tested proficiency.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {The choice of final keynote was no surprise to anyone as Jared Bernstein, who now runs his own speech and CALL consultancy company, Ordinate, proceeded to draw a very useful summary of where Speech Technologies in CALL stood in relation to prevalent approaches to LL, notably the communicative approach but also some lesser known socio-affective approaches such as Ehrman's, which borrow from Myers-Briggs testing principles.  His paper title was "New uses for ST in Language Education".  Needless to say, Bernstein, who has been a frequent presenter at CALICO conferences, was extensively quoted in other contributions and has made further progress in the important area of pronunciation scoring using Automatic Speech Recognisers (subsequently ASRs).\par }\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb60\sa240\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {3.  Papers and Posters\par }\pard\plain \qj\ri36\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {It would be entirely inappropriate to draw any qualitative distinction between papers and posters at this event, some posters presented materials of outstanding value and they might only have been presented on "walls" for reasons of personal preference by contributors or because they suited that presentation medium better.  The Poster Sessions also included some excellent product demonstrations.  Given that there were a total of 42 contributions by well over 100 co-authors (the audience for the workshop did in fact include around 100 participants), it would be impossible in a short review to cover comprehensively what was presented.  The reader is advised to purchase the very useful proceedings, which are not yet available in any other format.  This book contains the full text of all the contributions including posters.  What I present below is some of the major highlights (as I perceived them at the time) and, after a subsequently critical reading of all contributions.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {The first comment ought to be that the thematic progression, despite not being explicitly stated, was arranged in a very logical fashion, going from pedagogy to various technologies, via pre and post evaluation and empirical studies.  I faced the unenviable task of following Flege and preceding Egan and Kulman (from the Federal Language Training Laboratory) who explained the importance of relating ST in CALL to proficiency.  Following an experimental paper by Mennen from Edinburgh on Intonation, the first poster session started with an interesting SR product produced by a team in the English Midlands led by Russell (University of Birmingham), designed to work with primary school children.  This discrete ASR project, which uses an Acorn computer, was described and has been reported on in several journal articles before and since.  The well-known work carried out by Dalby and Kewley-Port (Indiana University) with minimal pairs was also presented and is equally covered elsewhere in the relevant literature.  The system was then called "HearSay". A project, which was less well-known in CALL circles hitherto was the Speech Synthesis (subsequently SS) dictionary for the Breton language developed by ENSSAT, as part of the CORDIAL project lead by Mercier.  Today's seminar will give EUROCALL the opportunity to discover this work.  In the area of Audio-Visual Synthesis, the interesting work carried out at the Universidad Polit\u233\'8ecnica de Madrid by the team led by Pedro G\u243\'97mez, presented at the CAPITAL first Pre-Conference Symposium last year in Leuven, was on display.  The ludic element caught everyone's imagination and reminded participants of one of the great landmarks in the field, namely the SPELL project.  A number of papers and posters covered the difficult area of Japanese mora-timing, still a mystery to those who have not had to learn the language.  Several contributions looked at precise aspects of the prosody of individual languages and the specific problems which they present for learners and how technology might provide an appropriate remedy.  One of the last posters of this session covered the use of the CSL system by Kay Elemetrics and SpeechViewer by IBM to assist the learning of Australian English vowels.  This confirms that this European event succeeded in attracting valuable contributions from the South Hemisphere.  \par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {A return to papers saw today's seminar Chair, Delmonte present the SLIM system designed to teach prosody.  This was followed by one of the few Web related papers from an SRI team which shows that ST is even penetrating Web delivery mechanisms, especially in the useful area of pronunciation scoring and testing.  This paper involved a significant number of InSTIL members.  Indeed the workshop included nearly 10 members out the 50-strong SIG.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {The following paper covered the well-known Subarashii project which uses ASR in a novel and pedagogically sound manner for teaching Japanese.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {This was followed with what might become another landmark, the work on vowel and intonation training for American English, carried out by the Correa-led team from Syracuse Language Systems, the major LL courseware developer who has done more than most to popularise the use of SR in LL, in America at least.  It is laudable that this commercial company should devote significant resources in R & D to an area which many consider as too leading edge for practical applications.  The project is reminiscent of SPELL too as it involves the display in real time of moving sprites "hitting" vowel targets on a 2-D display of a trapezoid "Interactive Vowel Chart".\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {Kawai and Hirose from the University of Tokyo followed with an experimental study of vowel duration scoring and training to assist in the teaching of crucial mora-timing.  This is another demonstration that SR could play a part in assisting the practice of vocalic duration, which can also be crucial in stress placement in some languages (e.g. French, see Konopczynski later).\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {The Japanese pair were followed by Eskenazi who must rank as the most prominent scholar in the area of speech fluency.  The Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) Fluency Pronunciation Trainer (FPT) deals with interactive correction and adapts to the learner.  Eskenazi usefully explained the component parts of FL fluency, which, like proficiency, may be used as a yardstick by which the efficacy of any spoken language training product may be assessed.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {Following Price's keynote, a number of papers dealt with Pronunciation Scoring, another one by SRI which dealt with Intra-Word Pauses, one from the University of Utrecht team, another from the University of Nijmegen, now selected as the hosts for EUROCALL 2001, and finally one from Witt and Young from Cambridge University.  All this work is assisting product and learner evaluation through the provision of objective measurement of progress and learning.  Most of the scholars working in this technically demanding area are amongst the best known names in the field.\par }\pard \qj\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 {Another Syracuse paper presented "The Accent Coach", a system for teaching the pronunciation of English to Japanese learners.  This was interesting minimal pair work, often carried out by using discrete ASR.\par }\pard \qj\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 {\b 4.  Moving on to Synthesis}{\par }\pard \qj\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 {It is quite clear in CALL circles that the "buzz" word is Speech Recognition rather than Speech Synthesis, and this can't just be due to SR been a more fortunate acronym than SS!  It is also not due to speech work not going on in SS as clearly there are many valuable efforts in the world today in the area of synthesis.  Some of it was about to be unveiled at this half way point in the proceedings starting with what must be a serious contender for the dubious title of "world's most contrived acronym, STRAIGHT, which stands for }{\b S}{peech }{\b T}{ransformation and }{\b R}{epresentation using }{\b A}{daptive }{\b I}{nterpolation of wei}{\b GHT}{ed spectrum.  If the process in its description (which follows) was easier to understand than the acronym was contrived, the authors could be forgiven but STRAIGHT re-synthesis is "a flexible analysis and resynthesis procedure which uses pitch-adaptive spectral analysis combined with a surface reconstruction method in the time-frequency region, and an excitation source design based on phase manipulation of all-pass filters"!?  The obscurity of this jargon is unlikely to motivate the average CALL practitioner to take an interest in speech technology.  However, STRAIGHT is simply a feature mainpulation and enhancement process which might have its use in highlighting certain speech phenomena.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {A description of the work of Akahane-Yamada on visual feedback associated with pronunciation rating followed.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {More work in re-synthesis to provide proof to the learners of the difference between native intonation and their own deviant renditions in the shape of the learner's intonation being re-synthesized and displayed to demonstrates differences was presented by a University of Stuttgart team.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {The next paper by Hazan and Simpson from University College London (UCL) showed how consonantal enhancement of phonemic constrasts difficult for non natives can lead to improved perception.  The results provide further evidence that phonemic distances between L1 and L2 matter more in FL learning than do personal speaker variables such as age.  This reinforces Flege's observations and results.\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb120\sa240\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f121\lang2057\kerning28\cgrid {\b0\f4\fs20 Time-scale modification was the next manipulation under scrutiny in a paper presented by a Japanese team from Yamagata University.  The second poster session then followed. \par }\pard \s1\sb120\sa240\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 5.  More posters\par }\pard\plain \qj\ri36\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {"A multi-modal software interface for teaching phonetic transcription" by Ciocea et al was on display.  This is a Web and Mac OS Supercard interface for teaching broad transcription in French.  It application in the teaching of French is however very limited for a number of reasons, not least because phonetics is no longer taught, and especially not transcribed.  It may be of interest in departments of phonetics and for use in the training of speech therapists.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {Another new CALL authoring tool for Windows was unveiled called Lingus.  Although its chances of commercial success are remote considering the glut of such devices in the market, it includes a speech visualisation facility which provides intonation contour in real time, and this sub-module is claimed to work separately and could be used in conjunction with any Windows based authoring program.\par }\pard \qj\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 {More demonstrations of visual systems were shown, one attempts to teach English intonation to Brazilian natives, another English aspirated stops to Arabs; an Audio-Visual (A-V) Speech synthesizer created by a University of Bath team led by Brooke was presented as well as a visual feedback system for the deaf produced by Nouza from the Technical University of Liberec, Czech Republic.\par }\pard \qj\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 {\b 6.  More posters\par }\pard \qj\ri34\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin34\lin0\itap0 {The final papers included one from McAllister from Stockholm University on Second Language Perception and the Concept of a Foreign Accent followed by Jonsson from a Swedish Speech Therapy School who described multi-sensory training for hard-of-hearing children including vibration techniques such as a vibrotactile chair.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {The climax of the meeting, in my personal view, came with the revelation to a partly stunned audience of the CSLU Toolkit, including the well-known Rapid Prototyper.  The team leader, Ron Cole, then from The Oregon Graduate Institute (OGI), presented an authoring tool which enables pedagogues in a highly intuitive and rapid fashion to incorporate media assets with intelligent speech technology such as ASR, SS and A-V SS in the shape of "baldi" the virtual talking head.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {We were treated to a synthetic rendition by various baldies of Fr\u232\'8fre Jacques in the form of a musical canon! The humour in the presentation, which provided much needed light relief at the end of a workshop dense with quite technical information content, did not detract from the quality of the tool described.  Such work of course has been achieved through the collaboration of a very large interdisciplinary team which includes some real experts such as Cole and Massaro to name just two.  There has been very substantial public and company funding for the project and this may point the way to the way to do things in the future if one wants to achieve real results fast.  \par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {The related work carried out in France at the Institut de la Communication Parl\u233\'8ee from the Universit\u233\'8e Stendhal from Grenoble was presented by Badin et al, who fortunately will again present in today's seminar.  Baldi has its French counterpart and Christian Beno\u238\'94t will have been highly instrumental in making this happen.  The rigour and value of such work will be lost on noone and the EU will need to fund this type of European development heavily to bring it about for languages other than English. \par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {The following paper was delivered by the world theoretical expert on "visible speech" namely Dominic Massaro and his article is another must for anyone working in the field.  Massaro's single variable experimentation is also a model for experimental studies in this area.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {Bernstein followed with the last keynote of the workshop.  The next paper dealt with Spoken Proficiency and Jared was among the co-authors.\par }\pard \qj\ri36\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin36\lin0\itap0 {The workshop concluded with two papers, a presentation by Davies and Poesio, from the University of Edinburgh, on the use of the OGI CSLUrp to produce a couple of spoken dialogue systems for EFL training and a paper by Devlieger from the Centre for Language and Migration at the Catholic University of Leuven which showed an SR-driven game designed to "explore the possibilities of the use of SR by preliterate children for operating learning tools".  This involves the elaboration of a Dutch recogniser for children of 5 to 15 years produced by Belgium's Speech Technology major player, Lernout & Hauspie.\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s1 \b\f121\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 \hich\af121\dbch\af0\loch\f121 6.\tab}}\pard\plain \s1\fi-360\li360\sb120\sa240\keepn\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart6\pnindent360\pnsp120\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls2\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 \b\f121\lang2057\kerning28\cgrid {\fs20 Conclusion\par }\pard\plain \qj\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {It is easy to see that both qualitatively and quantitatively this meeting was rich and hard to miss.  In a matter of 3 days, any newcomer to the field would receive a comprehensive total immersion in speech technology in language learning likely to achieve one of two possible future outcomes:\par }\pard \qj\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\bullet   Either a complete demotivation to enter the field given the considerable advance taken by others and the level of technical know-how seemingly required.\par }\pard \qj\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\bullet    Or enthusiasm for the potential which these developments have in the crucial issue of the progression towards a more transparent and responsive interface.\par }\pard \qj\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {What was clear to everyone who attended the meeting who didn't already believe this is that all this clever technology can only be utilised sensibly if developments are led from the pedagogic and scientific angles rather than the technological one.\par }\pard\plain \s33\sb120\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f121\lang2057\kerning28\cgrid {\fs20 Acknowledgements\par }\pard \s33\qj\sb120\sa240\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b0\fs20 I wish to record my gratitude to ESCA for their assistance throughout and in particular for inviting me as one of the members of the Scientific Committee for this memorable one-off event.  Thanks must also go to my institution who financed my travelling expenses to Sweden and the time taken away on this occasion from my more "mundane" duties.\par }\pard \s33\qj\sb120\sa240\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 References\par }\pard\plain \s23\qj\sa240\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {The only reference is the Book of Proceedings for the Workshop, which is distributed by ESCA and may be ordered from the ESCA Web Site: \par }\pard \s23\qj\fi-454\li454\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin454\itap0 {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK http://www.esca-speech.org/proc_order.html }{{\*\datafield 00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000002b00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0065007300630061002d007300700065006500630068002e006f00720067002f00700072006f0063005f006f0072006400650072002e00680074006d006c000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b5600000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0065007300630061002d007300700065006500630068002e006f00720067002f00700072006f0063005f006f0072006400650072002e00680074006d006c00000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs29\ul\cf2 http://www.esca-speech.org/proc_order.html}}}{\par }}